and we should be recording so welcome
everyone to the June 18th 2018 ipfs All
Hands call kicking off the agenda today
I would like to talk about some of the
changes that we have been discussing
recently but we're doing so without much
of much of the people here and without
without the recordings going off the
major problem we've been having is that
nobody with permission is here so while
the meetings are going as planned
they're kind of hastily thrown together
and we're spending a lot of time
scrambling when I think that we could be
a little bit more prepared and that can
be achieved with some simple changes
just like posting the agenda ahead of
time and assigning the moderator ahead
of time and things like that and having
a contingency plan for when people are
going to be away is basically all we
really need to do but I'm gonna post it
in a chat here the current proposal and
I would like everyone here to at least
look at that and give your feedback on
it so that we can change the meeting to
be a little bit more just be a little
bit more prepared for these meetings
over already posted hit nice so the
typically we would pick a note pick
note-taker already but the problem we're
having is that the bot is down and we
don't seem to have an up-to-date list of
who is willing to volunteer for that so
I figure we should probably get that out
of the way before we do anything else if
you would like to be a note-taker I
guess for now post a maybe a reply in
the chat or in the github issue for the
All Hands call for today which will be
let's see here this one here oh there it
is I posted the same one I think no
nevermind sorry
allowing it today a little hotty over
here so we we need to build that list of
note takers so that we don't spend a
good five minutes or however long this
is taken to to set up for the meetings
we spend too much time preparing for
that before we even get off the ground
recording so if you just would do that
that'd be great
but for now we'll just have to do it the
old-fashioned way of someone if you
would like to take notes today please
raise your hand
Jacob your first that'd be perfect and
we can just put those in the Google Docs
for now so with all that out of the way
let's actually get on with business as
usual for the agenda today it looks like
we have one with the Twitter pin bot
take it away Juan
sorry about that Hector hello
I don't know how to build my connection
it very shocked very surely what it says
Google Doc I see their pin but I have
some free time and if you want to use it
to pin it just like the IRC pin would or
almost except that you just mentioned
the deter pin but on Twitter with a CID
and a description and it will end things
for you on the storage faster mob is
that like I was seeing that not anybody
can just pin and how can people will get
on the privilege list of pinners if so
in order to get on the privilege list
the Twitter bot needs to follow you
so if it's you then you can in otherwise
you can
Mars did you have a question yes can you
hear me I just said that my microphone
yeah okay
he would not say that a penis name
result is support yes do you mean not or
did you not support it okay got it
yeah that's what I thought thank you any
other questions
Laura's again oh can I get it to follow
me mention it on Twitter or mention me
or Sam Miller great see there handle or
something okay awesome
okay that's really exciting
I like that we are having more options
for people to pin things other than just
IRC or manually do we have any other
demos today two more
I'm sorry they've been moved down here
b5 on update queer query query queue
alright whatever you prefer
yeah yes here we okay cool yeah I just
want to take a quick second to give
everybody an update on some stuff we've
been working on just it's fun to share
on this call because it's it builds
heavily on the p2p and ipfs but to give
a little bit background we've come a lot
from the I built this startup around the
data rescue movement when we first got
started and the update that I'm excited
to give is I think we finally sort of
walked a full circle around how to
answer a lot of the questions that we
were sort of dealing with a year and a
half ago people in the caller laughing
because they were in those rooms while
that was happening and at the time we
sort of for those of you didn't know we
had dinner recipes were like these
loosely coordinated groups of people at
something to build something looked a
lot like a data comments by archiving
government data and so we had like
librarians academic stated scientists
and programmers in the same room but we
put a real lack of tooling and that's X
Matt zoom Allah can we had like a good
conversation about how ipfs contribute
to the conversation and how let you to
be in the notion of peer to peer
distributed systems and cut to the
dressing way help some of this so if you
don't mind I'll take kind of five
minutes and I'm most in just updates on
sort of some of the things we've brought
into the mix on query you've got someone
else trim my screen that I get hopefully
this works okay does everybody see an
editor here all right cool thumbs up
awesome
so we've been focusing on bringing a lot
of the best bits that we could find from
those days after the day we had
librarians contributing the notion of
what a good method aspect look like we
had computer science contributing how to
structure datasets and how to work with
this that's and then we had a lot of
data stock is coming in coming in and
writing these wonderful sort of
python-based scripts that were helping
ingest and transform data into make them
whole
and so what we've been trying to build
for a long time is this sort of
contribute a standard definition of what
a dataset is and couple that with a lot
of sort of section for every audience
that sort of helps to contribute during
that time and so biggest thing we've
landed that I wanted to show today is
this notion of transformations that we
blended we've implemented this skylark
programming syntax which comes from the
google basil project i don't know if any
of you are familiar with it
what skylark is is a touring incomplete
subset of Python so it looks a lot like
Python and what we're using this for in
this context is to automate a repeatable
script that generates a data set and so
in this case what we're doing is this
data set generates a list of what does
this do it's been a minute I've been
demoing the what's this checks for
contributors and actually runs this and
we sort of defined it's gonna grab a
bunch of contributions to a repo from
github and so we won't go through this
code at nauseam but the most important
stuff to call out here is we have this
function called transform and its
function called download and both of
these sort of are things we're going to
embed into the execution that will
generate something when I DFS and so I'm
going to use a so in this context I have
two special environment variables that
will make a lot of sense to this
community we have ipfs paths that
properly and then we also have query
paths that just something that we would
like it to go to so if I do and then
what I'm gonna do is I'm gonna run query
ad and I'm gonna need you supply a
couple of things here just to quickly
walk through this this at the mo file is
the file I was just showing you here
which defined some basic sort of
structure this is our standard
definition of a data set so we have a
section which is mainly I drives a lot
of its knowledge from library science
its structure which defines a machine
readable structure stuff and then this
transform script is the most important
part so this is a link to that
transformed
sky file and that we configure it to say
hey I want to grab from the go and the
ipfs go organization and the go IPO
that's repo what I'm going to do is I'm
going to run this query add function
providing at this data set that yellow
file and while this is a public endpoint
I just thought it would be good to demo
that we can actually plumb secrets into
this and so in this case were plumbing
and I get hub API token and so it's
gonna warn me and say hey on an API took
into a script with someone else's
written this is probably something you
want to check before you actually run
this but I'm gonna say yes because I
wrote it I think it's I think it's safe
I'm gonna run it it's gonna go on the
internet and it's gonna create a new
data set and so now if I do a query LS
we can see this go I professed
contributors by week and what this is
done is this is generated hash fun on
ipfs I'll just data is being stored on
ipfs and stuff I do query I use I'm
gonna select this thing now they've
query get sort of CL let's do the for
nicer this is what actually got
generated and so what happened is we we
did a lot of things that in the
background for a few we generated a
commit with an author based on an idea
that we provided for you we signed that
commit with a cryptographic hash of the
signature just to check some of the data
that was generated cutable so I can just
run query update and it'll go and rerun
that script a transformation that it's
now been embedded inside of this data
set just to make this a little more
visible I can finally run query render
which will just execute templates
against ad sets and so that occur but
I've already loaded this that's not that
big a deal and it gives you a chart that
looks something like this
I think I went to that a little
basically what happens I pre-written
some HTML that takes the query data sent
and turns that into this chart and so if
you know how to write this is very
similar to like your world of like
static site rendering templates or
anything like that but we sort of in the
world of query we think that it is sort
of our fundamental unit it makes things
so we can do all kinds of stuff like
query diff and query validate inquiry
law which will actually do great log bad
thing
oh no whatever anyways and then last but
not least in the stuff that's more
interesting to those
in the lib beautiful world I can run
query' connects which will spin up an IP
FS note and then on top of that it will
add the query sort of like overlay
network on top of an overlay Network
concept it gives me my sub my profile ID
it's actually separate from my ipfs pure
ID address then I can sort of just
quickly get a feel for this I can do
very appears list and this will show
query peers that I've connected to but
again for this crowd I can do net work
equals ipfs this'll show all the ipfs
peers they don't currently connected to
four they were debugging the way that
connection manager prioritizes fears and
so I can see a few more peers up here in
this as the network finds more people in
hydrates all of this at the end of the
day is queries designed to put it if
that's on that gift that's make them
interoperable work and our country milks
and last but not least we've done all of
this at the front end right we love this
we can sort of see this connecting it
showing my actions it is that we just
generated this is the actual information
that was being loaded there's the
structure that's determined yeah and
then if I need to I can see the gruesome
connected ooh that's me sorry this is
the protected you I can grab their
datasets
I had a dataset I could just hit add and
that bins it's my local IP FS know so
yeah that's kind of where we're at with
query it's taken us a long time to get
to this place but we finally feel like
we'd figured out some important problems
yeah I have you happy to take any
questions but all of this is
downloadable enough right now on our
thing we got a kind of release but
that's up go ahead
in the Brenin this is great I am so
happy to see this stuff coming along and
landing in the past you worked on having
query the query nodes that are sitting
on top of IP FS nodes also be they were
also indexing content so that you could
query it on the fly are you still doing
that or did you set that aside so we
intend to yeah for a long time for those
of us those of you maybe are on the
photo background of meat hunting these
calls
we had like SQL no it's built on or a
natural selection engine built on top of
this we're intending to go back there
but we first want to get we needed we
realized we needed to get our
fundamentals right first and so what
we're really excited about with the
skylark implementation is it actually
sets us up for distributed computing as
well because scott is a massively
paralyzed abou language unlike python at
half of global interpreter lock and so
we could there's nothing stopping us
from writing something called map and
reduce that can then be called bike
repairs and you could create a sort of
on the fly swarm of people that you
compute we're very excited about like
the notion of semantic chunking so
getting right down into ipfs blocks and
making them line up with query rows so
that you could say take these hundred
rows and go do this thing too so we
think there's some really exciting
possibilities that come out of that mat
again have you I'm excited to see commit
graphs implemented in query have you
dealt with any of the like allowing
multiple people to author commits and
merge those changes so like Matt and
Lars and Michelle are all editing are
all adding and modifying and we want to
be able to merge Michele's changes or a
lot allow her to push her changes into
the repo any of that like sprawling
access controls consideration
yes we've we can started to roadmap
we're calling them change requests
because we're not very original but yeah
we don't we don't quite know how that'll
work but we have definitely laid up all
the foundations for making that work
properly the biggest thing is obviously
like getting this sort of spending of
hashes is removing and knowing who's
offering what currently great when you
can add each other's datasets they just
stay authored as that current person the
recommended workflow while we work on
these change requests is to
you can use query export to spit out any
data set as it currently exists and say
cool that's somebody else's transform
script
I'll just rerun it as my own and create
my own dataset eventually we'll figure
out some way to merge them back together
overnight you
would it be possible like if I just
Michels made like 20 changes system data
set could I pulled that with its commit
history and then make my own changes yes
yeah but it would become yours
like as soon as you started making
changes to Michelle's dataset I would it
would become it would be associated with
your profile in the future we need but
you would still see her commits in the
history before yeah yeah it would show
um because we embed the pure idea author
into the actual one that you're building
upon so you can reference just like a
normal sort of commit chain you can
reference previous commits that are of
your own make it Rob is the is the
script or like the hash of the script
included in the in the commit so that
there's some sort of signature that kind
of covers how they data was generated
absolutely it so the script itself rides
with the data set definition so when you
do query ad it comes with it we think
that's what makes them repeatable and
usable so you could take the thing that
I just wrote configure it and set it up
for I don't know say JSF BFS and you
could run that exact same script to
generate a different data set the
scripts themselves I shouldn't mention
that the skylark syntax it we've
implemented explicitly denies access to
things like the file system like you
know there's some basic security stuff
that you can't do for obvious reasons
we're also going to like great likes to
make that download steps one that has
access to the Internet and we didn't
we've turned off all the access to the
actual underlying what's on IVFs or
whatever and then you have to hand back
the data and then you can do more
interesting stuff in the transport but
we sort of explicitly try to have a nice
security model for that but we also
really want because we want the scripts
to travel with the datasets and make
them that's something that you could
take and sort of build upon as you go
move forward
yeah anyways we're excited to start
seating this stuff with some real
content with some really interesting
things coming forward I'm excited
related connected to you Hector
especially because we're going after the
next thing we have to build it some
service that in massive sets of these
data sets to keep them available but we
were really pumped about the Libby to be
Tianjin ipfs underlying technologies has
been a really fun experience in trying
to build something that'll hopefully
facilitate building a data Commons for
people who are interested in excited for
such a thing anyways yeah ruff sorry I
just wanted to confirm it sounded like
you said there's not a release that
includes this yet but you should be
cutting it soon so yeah we'll cut it
this afternoon
yeah and so that the transformation is
all in it right now but we just have
some cleanup like I showed query use and
query get today which real this
afternoon the peers are all there are
people ship right now and start building
it knock yourself out we would be deeply
appreciative obviously yeah our github
three roads are or the steps for a query
- I own Qri any comments suggestions
super welcome we've we've isolated the
p2p fold or explicitly to make it a
little more fun to talk about p2p
conversations in one place but yeah
thanks again guys it's great to be part
of this peering community fantastic I'm
personally very excited over to see
tools like this being made and released
it's fantastic so up next it looks like
we have a demo from ma Chen if you would
like to go ahead with that
so it says offer demo it's more of a
presentation because it's just about
rewriting your web RTC transport so I
have invented this thing called
interface data exchange which basically
abstracts away the logic of exchanging
something like a handshake and the
motivation behind this is basically when
a web RTC star server is down the whole
thing is thought and after all is this
coordinate p2p among HTTP so it
shouldn't crash the whole application
and so I thought let's create the first
data exchange
it's basically exchanging a single
handshake or signaling or something like
that request through an abstracted away
interface and it has also many
adventures on the web RTC star because
it's not bound to a single server and
it's also not using socket IO which
apparently seems to be a good thing if
it slipped Italy transport and so I've
made two implementations the first one
is lipid exchange direct which I'm going
to show the tests or as a demo and it
basically uses the existing the PDP
circuit connection to exchange this SDP
offer for web RTC and there's also a p2p
exchange from the rules which is like a
share uses a shared here between two
other peers to exchange this STP offer
and it should not be confused with the
other thing I made called relevance
protocol and so this is basically graph
of how it were how it will work so
instead if addictions direct what your
there's already a connection when a PDP
circuit established and true a note that
both browsers are connected we are work
so good secure and then it simply
exchanges is SDP offer and upgrades that
connection of a dynamic protocol which
is going to be implemented soon and it's
as normal web RTC connection without a
need for the server anymore and then you
run a voice module it's similar
there's the server and the drones be
able to be action for us server module
the nodes are not connected of a circuit
and they don't need to actually connect
and instead the first process will be
asked for publicly off yet up here
tenzen ste encrypted offer to give a
free single char the server forward set
and the whole procedure goes back again
Jerez ID and then web allison connection
is established and
that's basically the point of this
rewrite and in the future or basically
later I will try to integrate this data
into the p2p so it's integrated in a
similar way as discovery is and also a
few features in the community to get
edit like supporting to pass the swarm
as a argument to a transport and merging
this and maybe in the future the
response server can be enabled by a vote
and to go with Latino trust it can even
get more decentralized also I have a
future idea to make like sharing that
try smooth exchanges like to direct me
one of those exchange based a priority
and exchange also where DHT and so now
I'm going to demo the tests which isn't
actually quite a lot it's just a bunch
of block output maybe I should have
tested that comment
finally so what this really does is our
gosh my computer is so slow
so let's basically run two tests
[Music]
this varies our shows that it works that
I already have a working solution and
yeah that will take some 30 seconds
because apparently web RTC is very slow
on this network for some reason so I'm
sorry for taking forever it's just that
my setup is not the best so what it did
is first it connected to the PDP circuit
rule a then it connected those two peers
of a circuit and then it exchanged that
signaling offer via the the PDP exchange
protocol I guess it's more like an
interface so any module that implements
the interface could be used for it it's
not strictly limited to the rules
protocol or the direct exchange HT and
everything else is possible and so yeah
this physically shows that it works and
I don't forget it you had a test they
are just repeating the same thing and
steady down on do you have any questions
for something unclear
we have no questions on this all right
well thanks for the demo matcha it's
very exciting to see some of this the
interconnectivity with the peers in the
browser very happy to see all that stuff
come together I'm going to just double
check the agenda here and make sure we
have nothing remaining otherwise we
skipped me at the beginning sorry if
there's nobody else so I just wanted to
quickly say because I know some of the
discussion there's been since we
switched to using a Google Docs a few
weeks ago is that it's a pain to convert
to markdown so last week I spent a day
where I tried a bunch of different
converters and none of them really
worked really well so I wrote one so
there's a link in the notes it's pretty
simple just copy/paste from Google Docs
drop it in the left-hand side and we'll
give you a markdown on the right-hand
side that should be pretty reasonable if
you have issues with it feel free to
file issues or submit few hours it's
really simplistic but yeah so hopefully
that helps people who are transfer
transferring the notes from Google Docs
to github and makes that not a huge
problem anymore
that's all thank you I have a question
on that Rob is there um I know Victor's
not here but do you have any idea if
this can be integrated with our note bot
you could definitely take the parts of
it and do something I think the tough
part would be you'd have to figure out
how to write something to identify where
like the current notes start and end
because the Google Doc is like a running
set of notes that includes history and a
template down at the bottom so I figured
it was the like easy simple thing for
now to just have whoever is transforming
the no shows copy/paste and manage it
but definitely the routine that does the
transform is pretty
we'll split out so you could definitely
read something automated you did it -
that's perfect
I maybe we should continue the
discussion on the proposal and see if we
can do something to get the template
down where it would maybe work better
with this or decide if it should just be
manual throughout sure okay so we have
anything else that I missed on this
looking around it looks like everything
is good so before we go I just want to
remind everyone that the agenda and such
for next week is going to be posted in
advance I will probably post it in the
PM issue or open up a PM issue for next
week immediately following this so if
you'd like to schedule anything ahead of
time you can do that right after we're
done here so with that out of the way
that concludes the meeting thank you all
for coming and bearing with this bye-bye